"""this is a list of tasks to accomplish so I don't forget where I left off"""

- 2/14
I am trying to get the yaml parser to read in string frequencies and measured lengths
to use in the connections class of the data_structures file. I need to change my adjustments to the YAML parser
right now I have added in the lengths and freq underneath the strings portion. the issue is the YAML parser
does a for-loop for everyhting under the Connections heading at line 98. it is expecting there to only be a 
"Strings" heading with the current info and it gets confused that there's more than that under "Connections"
Ideally I want to change it so each string has the nodes that connect it followed by its frequency and then
its measured lenght. right now it can read in those values for lines 83-94accurately its just the foor-loop
gets tripped up.

-2/18
I went and made it so the optimizer runs by having frequencies input, you don't need measured lengths because they
are calculated from node positions, so just make sure those are right. Now the challenge is getting the optimizer 
to work, here's what I need to figure out:
    -Remember to add back in a penalty so that string lengths are not changed too much
    -figure out how to access the .length and .force of each individual string
    -use the .forces to calculate objective function value
    -change the .lengths of each string, re-calc the forces and repeat until converged

    - the optimizer should chagne the lengths each time, initially the lengths are as in the YAML parser
      but to change them I need to figure out if that can be done in the optimizer class or elsewhere
-2/20
I had austin go over it, he helped me know how to access the lengths and forces inside of the tensegrity class
things left to do are:
  - put in realistic values for the YAML and see if the tensegrity solves
  - investigate if inputing frequencies from the YAML is permenantley messing up how forces are calculated when it gets
    updated with new lengths

2/24
I'm trying to get the 3-bar model to solve with the physical measurements, I think there's something wrong with
how the YAML is being read. I set the bar frequencies to None but they seem to be converted to 0.0 in the data_structures
file. It always fails to solve, curiously the 1bar yaml with the frequencies adde does solve successfully, so I really
don't know what the deal is with that


3/3 
I put in more accurate (still not perfect) values for bar stiffness and node positions, now the bars are evaluating
with reasonable negative forces, and I think its solving better. I just need to make it so the bar lengths are never
changed and see what that does.

OKAY! its almost in working order, I think all the bugs are worked out and it is actually solving the system accurately.
the test case of trying to get the 3 bar to all have the same forces isn't working, but when you just try to get the top 3
strings equal (current settup) it does work. I moved the target tension to being defined once before the minimizer runs,
right now its just set to be the average value of the different strings. Bounds are set so bars don't change lengths